Baymax Interaction Module :
..............................................

Step 1: Hardware Setup
Components:
Raspberry Pi (or a laptop for initial testing).
USB Microphone (or an inbuilt laptop mic for testing).
Speakers or headphone jack for audio output.
Assembly:
Connect the microphone to the Raspberry Pi/laptop.
Connect speakers to the Raspberry Pi/laptop or use inbuilt ones.
-------------------------------------
Let’s break down the hardware setup into detailed steps to ensure everything is clear and manageable.

1. Hardware Components

a. Raspberry Pi (or Laptop)  
Purpose: This serves as the brain of our Baymax, where all the software runs.  
Raspberry Pi Recommendation: Raspberry Pi 4 (Model B) with 4GB or 8GB RAM.  
Laptop Option: If you’re testing initially, you can use your laptop to save setup time.  

b. USB Microphone  
Purpose: To capture voice commands from the user.  
Options:  
- USB microphones: Easy to use and compatible with Raspberry Pi and laptops (e.g., Samson Go Mic or FIFINE USB Microphones).  
- If you’re using a laptop, the inbuilt mic works fine for testing.  

c. Speakers or Headphones  
Purpose: To output Baymax’s responses (text-to-speech functionality).  
Options:  
- External speakers (via a 3.5mm jack or Bluetooth).  
- Headphones for testing if speakers are unavailable.  

2. Setting Up the Raspberry Pi  

a. Install the OS  
1. Download and install Raspberry Pi OS (formerly Raspbian) from the official site.  
2. Flash the OS onto an SD card using a tool like Balena Etcher.  
3. Insert the SD card into the Raspberry Pi and power it on.  

b. Connect Peripherals  
1. Connect the USB Microphone: Plug it into one of the Raspberry Pi's USB ports.  
2. Connect Speakers: Use the 3.5mm audio jack on the Raspberry Pi or pair Bluetooth speakers.  
3. Keyboard and Mouse: For initial setup, connect these via USB or Bluetooth.  
4. Monitor: Connect via HDMI if needed, or use remote access tools like VNC or SSH.  

c. Test Audio Input and Output  
1. Open the terminal and check the microphone:  
   arecord -l  
   This lists the connected audio devices.  
2. Test audio output:  
   speaker-test -t wav -c 2  
   You should hear static noise if the speakers are working.  

3. Laptop Setup (Alternative)  

a. Using Inbuilt Microphone  
Most laptops have inbuilt microphones, so you can skip the USB microphone for initial tests. Simply use the default mic settings.  

b. Audio Output  
Test the audio output by playing any sound file or using online tools.  
Connect external speakers if the inbuilt laptop speakers are not loud enough.  

4. Assembly Instructions  

a. Hardware Connection  
1. Microphone: Ensure the USB mic is securely connected to the Raspberry Pi or laptop.  
2. Speakers: Connect them via the 3.5mm audio jack or Bluetooth. For Raspberry Pi: Pair Bluetooth speakers via the “Bluetooth” menu in the taskbar.  
3. Power Supply: If using a Raspberry Pi, connect a 5V/3A power adapter.  
4. Network: Connect the Raspberry Pi to Wi-Fi or use an Ethernet cable.  

b. Cable Management  
Keep the microphone and speaker cables organized to prevent tangling.  
Use Velcro strips or zip ties to manage excess cable lengths.  

5. Testing Your Hardware  

a. Microphone Test  
1. Open a terminal or command prompt.  
2. Record a short audio snippet:  
   arecord -D plughw:1,0 -d 5 test.wav  
   Replace plughw:1,0 with your microphone's device name.  
3. Play the recorded audio to verify:  
   aplay test.wav  

b. Speaker Test  
1. Play a test sound:  
   speaker-test -t sine -f 440 -c 2  
2. Adjust the volume as necessary.  

6. Troubleshooting Tips  

Microphone Not Detected:  
- Ensure the microphone is connected securely.  
- Reboot the system and check arecord -l again.  

No Audio Output:  
- Check the default audio output device in settings.  
- Ensure the speakers are powered on and correctly connected.  

Wi-Fi Issues on Raspberry Pi:  
- Use an Ethernet cable for a stable connection during setup.  
- Check Wi-Fi settings using:  
   sudo raspi-config  